Regarding garbage collection

Garbage Collection is a process to identify and delete the objects from Heap memory which are not in use. GC frees the space after removing unreferenced objects.

Garbage= un -referencable object.

Automatic Gargabe Collection --- to avoid mem. leaks/holes

JVM creates 2 thrds --- main thrd(to exec main() sequentially) -- foreground thrd
G.C --- daemon thrd ---background thrd --- JVM activates it periodically(only if required)  --- GC releases the memory occupied by un-referenced objects allocated on the heap(the obj whose no. of ref=0) 

How to request for GC ?
API of System class
public static void gc()
eg : System.gc();

Object class API
protected void finalize() throws Throwable
Automatically called by the garbage collector on an object before garbage collection of the object takes place.


Releasing of  non- Java resources.(eg - closing of DB connection, closing file handles,closing socket connections)   is NOT done automatically by GC

Triggers for marking the object for GC(candidate for GC)

1. Nullifying all valid refs.
eg : Box b1=new Box(1,2,3);
Box b2=b1;
Box b3=b1;
b1=b2=b3=null; // 1st Box marked for GC
2. re-assigning the reference to another object
eg : Box b1=new Box(10,20,30);
b1=new Box(11,21,31);//1st Box marked for GC

3. Object created within a method & its ref NOT returned to the caller.
4. Island of isolation

-----------------------------
More Details

Garbage Collection is a process to identify and delete the objects from Heap memory which are not in use. GC frees the space after removing unreferenced objects.

The event in which Garbage Collectors are doing their job is called “Stop the world” event which means all of your application threads are put on hold until the garbage is collected.

How Garbage Collector works

The basic process of Hotspot JVM Garbage collector completes in two phases:

1. Marking
This phase is called marking phase in which GC identifies which objects are in use or which are not. All objects are scanned in the marking phase to make this determination.

2. Deletion
In Deletion phase, the marked object is deleted and the memory is released. Deletion of the unreferenced objects can be done in two ways:

2.1 Normal Deletion:  In this phase, all unused objects will be removed and memory allocator has pointers to free space where a new object can be allocated.
OR
2.2 Deletion and Compaction: As you see in normal deletion there are free blocks between referenced objects. To further improve performance, in addition to deleting unreferenced objects, remaining referenced object will be compact.

Why Heap divided into Generations
It is a time consuming process to scan all of the objects from a whole heap and further mark and compact them. The list of the object grows gradually which leads to longer garbage collection time as more and more objects are allocated with time.

In General Applications most of the objects are short-lived. Fewer and fewer objects remain allocated over time.

That’s why to enhance the performance of the JVM, Heap is broken up into smaller parts called generations and JVM performs GC in these generations when the memory is about to fill up.

Generational Process of Garbage Collection

1. New objects are allocated in Eden Space of Young Generation. Both Survivor Spaces are empty in starting.
2. A minor garbage collection will trigger once the Eden space fills up.
Referenced objects are moved to the S0 survivor space and Eden Space will be cleared and all unreferenced objects will be deleted.
3. It will happen again to Eden space when next time GC will be triggered. But, in this case, all referenced objects are moved to S1 survivor space. In addition, objects from the last minor GC on the S0 survivor space have their age incremented and get moved to S1. Now both Eden and S0 will be cleared, and this process will repeat every time when GC is triggered. On every GC triggered, survivor spaces will be switched and object’s age will be incremented.
4. Once the objects reach a certain age threshold, they are promoted from young generation to old generation. So, this is how objects promotion takes place.
5. The major GC will be triggered once the old generation completely fills up.

Available Garbage collectors in Hotspot JVM
1. Serial Garbage Collector: Serial GC designed for the single-threaded environments. It uses just a single thread to collect garbage. It is best suited for simple command-line programs. Though it can be used on multiprocessors for applications with small data sets.

2. Parallel Garbage Collector: Unlike Serial GC it uses multiple threads for garbage collection. It is a default collector of JVM and it is also called the Throughput garbage collector.

3. CMS(concurrent mark & sweep) Garbage Collector: CMS uses multiple threads at the same time to scan the heap memory and mark in the available for eviction and then sweep the marked instances.

4. G1 Garbage Collector: G1 Garbage collector is also called the Garbage First. It is available since Java 7 and its long-term goal is to replace the CMS collector. The G1 collector is a parallel, concurrent, and incrementally compacting low-pause garbage collector.



