Have you completed this ?
6.5 Discuss lab work : 
Lab work : Create a multi threaded app to solve these objective in a parallel manner
1. Accept range of nos from user : main
2. print all even nos : even_printer thrd
3. print all odd nos : odd_printer
4. print average of the range supplied : averager thrd



Revise Multi threading in Java 
main thread : sop("in main");
Create another thread : to print in thread : name of the thread : "testMe"

main(...) throws IE
{
 sop("in main");
 Thread t1=new Thread(() -> sop("in "+Thread.currentThread().getName()),"testMe");
t1.start();
  t1.join();
sop("main over...");

}



Solve this (Func Streams)

7. Apply threads to Collections n I/O
practical usage of threads.
Create a multi threaded app to solve these objective in a parallel manner
1. Get a map of products with sample (hard coded data)
2. Sort the products as per date n save the sorted results (on separate lines) in the text file (u can replace it by bin file using ser. as extra task)
3. Sort the products as per price n save the sorted results (on separate lines) in the text file (u can replace it by bin file using ser. as extra task)
4. Ensure no orphans.

classes 
Product : core class 
Categry : enum
custom exception class
validation rules (optional)
CollectionUtils
IOUtils --store / restore
runnable tasks
Tester --UI



8.Think of a joint account scenario
example of the sharing of resources , among concurrent threads.
eg : Book My Show or any online reservation system
Identify the problem n then apply the solution.

Different ways of applying synchronization
1. synchronized methods
OR
2. synchronized blocks
(refer to "readme synchronization")


9.User threads vs daemon threads

10.Refer to Producer Consumer scenario
Is synchronization applied ? YES 
How writeData n readData methods synchronized ? YES
Run the tester n observe
Are there any problems ?
YES 
If producer gets consecutive chances : problem observed --data loss (overwriting data sample)

If consumer gets consecutive chances : problem observed --dup data sample (stale data)
i.e same data sample read repeatedly !

Continue to solution tomorrow....







